This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
you share it without charge with others.
1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.
1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  receipt of the work.
* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.
1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm
Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
status with the IRS.
The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.
Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary

